---
title: "The Passing of the Grey Company"
excerpt: "Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli are accompanied by the Grey Company as they pass through the Paths of the Dead between Rohan and Gondor."
date: "2024-02-29"
---

"Drawing from my experience as an execution trader at a prominent hedge fund, I observed firsthand the dynamics of forex spreads. For major currency pairs like USD/JPY, spreads were impressively tight, often less than a pip. To put this into perspective, a one-pip spread, say between USD/JPY at 150.00 and 150.01, translates to a mere 0.007% difference. However, as we venture into more exotic territories—like the Russian Ruble (USD/RUB), Polish Złoty (USD/PLN), and Mexican Peso (USD/MXN)—the spreads widen significantly, ranging from 0.5% to 0.9%. This uptick is primarily due to the inherent risks and lower liquidity of these currencies.

Contrast this with the retail investor's plight, who often faces a staggering 3% spread even on transactions involving the world's most traded currencies. This disparity not only underscores the banks' hefty profit margins but also hints at the systemic significance of these financial giants—any failure could potentially send shockwaves through the economy.

The impact is even more pronounced for immigrants remitting money back home. A simple $100 transfer can incur a 7% or higher total cost, disproportionately affecting those least able to afford it, especially in connections with emerging markets. This is where the potential for cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum shines, offering a dramatically more affordable alternative for cross-border transfers.

Reflecting on the Euro's introduction, it's evident how transformative decisions can realign financial landscapes. Despite initial resistance, partly because banks were reluctant to adopt the Euro due to the higher profits they garnered from trading a larger number of individual currency pairs with higher bid/offer spreads, the Euro's role in facilitating trade and providing a robust alternative to the USD has been undeniable. I see a parallel path for cryptocurrencies. As technology evolves and crypto adoption grows, I'm optimistic about its ability to offer a more equitable solution for global finance. The transition may not be smooth, and traditional banks may resist, but the potential for a more inclusive financial system is too compelling to ignore. The journey towards this future may be fraught with challenges, but the vision of a more inclusive financial landscape is compelling and within reach.